---
title: Setting up Kanboard on an Orange Pi Zero Plus 2
date: 2020-10-04 19:56:00 +0000
categories: [Blogging, Tutorial, DevOps]
tags: [ARM, Scrum, DevOps, Kanboard, OrangePi]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

# What is Kanboard
---

[Kanboard](https://kanboard.org/) is a free and open source `Kanban` project management software. Which we will be using today due to that premises.

In software development, the virtual Kanban system is used to track and limit the work in progress. Even though the name originates from the Japanese language "Kanban", which roughly translates to "signal card", and there are cards used in most software development Kanban implementations, these cards do not actually function as signals to get more work done. They represent the work items. Now being greatly adopted inside companies in addition to Agile frameworks and practices.


# What is OrangePi
---

[Orange Pi](http://www.orangepi.org/) is an open source single board computer, based on Raspberry Pi 1 but lower priced and manufactured by Shenzhen Xunlong Software CO.

It can work with Android versions 4, 6 or 7.0, depending on the model, Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, Raspbian, ArchLinux, openSUSE, OpenWrt and other operating systems, although the most efficient is Armbian. It uses the AllWinner A20 SoC processor, and has a memory that goes from 256 MB of the Orange Pi Zero to the 2GB DDR3 SDRAM of the main boards. It has a standard TF card slot.

## Flashing Armbian to Orange Pi Zero Plus 2 H5
---

In this case we will be flashing `Armbian` to an Orange Pi Zero Plus 2 H5. It comes with 512MB of DDR3 SDRAM and H5 Quad-Core SoC up to 1.2GHz, which must be enough to manage our Little Kanban projects in our Home Office.

First of all, we need to visit the [Armbian](https://www.armbian.com/download/?tx_maker=xunlong) for `Orange Pi` Download page, and download the latest version of the software. Armbian Focal with kernel 5.8.y for us.

Once the file is downloaded now we need to flash it to our SD Card. We will be using the official `rpi-imager` package, which we can install this way:

```bash
sudo apt install rpi-imager
```


## Installing Kanboard
---


### Installing PHP and PHP Libs
---

Time to install latest version of `php` and all of the required modules.

```bash
sudo apt install -y php-cli php-common php-mbstring php-fpm \
    php-sqlite3 php-opcache php-json php-ldap php-gd php-xml  \
    php-mysql php-pgsql php-curl php-zip
```

### Installing and configuring MariaDB

Kanobard uses `SQLite` by default, we are going to use `MariaDB`.
In order to do this, first we need to download MariaDB.

```bash
sudo apt install mariadb-server
```

Later on, we need to Create a database and a user inside MariaDB.
If we are downloading MariaDB for the first time, it is recommended to use:

```bash
sudo mysql-secure-install
```



### Install and configure apache2

```bash
sudo apt install apache2 libapache2-mod-php
```
