---
title: Setting up Kanboard on an Orange Pi Zero Plus 2
date: 2020-10-04 19:56:00 +0000
categories: [Tutorial, OrangePi]
tags: [kanboard, kanban, orangepi]  
---

# What is Kanboard
---

[Kanboard](https://kanboard.org/) is a free and open source `Kanban` project management software. Which we will be using today due to that premises.

In software development, the virtual Kanban system is used to track and limit the work in progress. Even though the name originates from the Japanese language "Kanban", which roughly translates to "signal card", and there are cards used in most software development Kanban implementations, these cards do not actually function as signals to get more work done. They represent the work items. Now being greatly adopted inside companies in addition to Agile frameworks and practices.


# Installing PHP and PHP Libs
---

Time to install latest version of `php` and all of the required modules.

```bash
sudo apt install -y php-cli php-common php-mbstring php-fpm \
    php-sqlite3 php-opcache php-json php-ldap php-gd php-xml  \
    php-mysql php-pgsql php-curl php-zip
```

# Installing and configuring MariaDB
---

Kanobard uses `SQLite` by default, we are going to use `MariaDB`.
In order to do this, first we need to download MariaDB.

```bash
sudo apt install mariadb-server
sudo systemctl start mariadb
sudo systemctl enable mariadb
```

Later on, we need to create a database and an user inside MariaDB for kanboard to use.
If we are downloading MariaDB for the first time, it is recommended to use run the following command in order to securely set up the DB:

```bash
sudo mysql-secure-install
```

Now we need to enter the database using this command while providing the needed root credentials.

```bash
mysql -u root -p
```

And create the database and the user via the following pastes:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE kanboard CHARACTER SET utf8mb4 COLLATE utf8mb4_unicode_ci;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON kanboard.* TO 'kanboard'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'mypassword';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```

# Installing and configuring apache2
---

In order to display our kanboard web service, we need to install the `apache` web server and the php mod.

```bash
sudo apt install apache2 libapache2-mod-php
sudo systemctl start apache2
sudo systemctl enable apache2
```

# Installing and configuring Kanboard
---

Now that we have all the prerequisites fullfilled, we can move on the actuall kanboard installation. We will download the code and extract it to the `/var/www/html` folder.

```bash
wget https://github.com/kanboard/kanboard/archive/v1.2.15.tar.gz
sudo tar xzvf v1.2.15.tar.gz -C /var/www/html/
cd /var/www/html/kanboard
sudo cp config.default.php config.php
```

Now we must edit the `config.php` with the information of our database in order for the application to work.
We can edit the following lines:

```php
...
define('DB_DRIVER', 'mysql');
define('DB_USERNAME', 'kanboard');
define('DB_PASSWORD', 'mypassword');
define('DB_HOSTNAME', 'localhost');
define('DB_NAME', 'kanboard');
define('PLUGIN_INSTALLER', true);
...
 ```

Right after, we need to apply the right file permissions and ownership to the apache user, and restart the service.

```bash
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/html/kanboard
sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/html/kanboard/data
sudo service apache2 restart
```

